Scattered Fragments towards a Radical Subversion of Philosophical Anthropology  
By: Russell Sicheng Shen – Babur Timurid (RSS-BT)

I

1. Phenomenologically, we begin with just our own qualia and must infer the existence of the material world only through patterns of regularity in our deliberate interactions after repeatedly acting upon the material world and observing changes to our qualia.  
2. We can be so sure that in all practicality we need not ponder this dilemma ever again but we can never be 100% sure.  
3. But then we learn science through the lifelong action-sensation feedback loop characteristic of all human agents and the interrelations of the material world seem to work out every one of their processes without reference to qualia, only to deterministic or stochastic functions of material items.  
4. Our qualia which was our starting point transforms into something unnecessary mechanistically, simply not there, trivial, accidental, a side effect, just along for the ride, or integrally linked to material processes in a one-to-one lockstep dance where the qualia cannot be without its material correlate, is determined in full by its material correlate's dynamic state, and is a puppet whose strings are its correlating material processes' own laws of motion that need not ever make reference to qualia.  
5. The material world we inferred as our second step seems to be the causally-dominant and primary substance that controls the procession of our qualia which was the first thing we were sure we knew of, i.e., qualia is our invariable starting point, which of course means that we thought of it as the dominant and only substance initially in the very beginning.  
6. Our subjective phenomenological perception of actively consciously pushing on the world while our qualia-state morphs over time, and producing further actions in a lifelong feedback loop with sense-percepts from outside the world (not to mention our internal thoughts and other inside experiences which I consider internal-percepts) was an illusion and instead we are the puppets of material processes explainable purely mechanistically even though we were never 100% sure that the material world existed in full.  
7. This inversion mirrors Marx's concept of the "thingification of persons and the personification of things", the fetishism latent in active existence since something that we conjectured controls us and robs us of our free will, the free will necessary for us to conjecture it in the first place, leading to gross contradictions.  
8. Subjectively, it feels like we are in control when we go about our lives as humans, but we are definitely not in control since our actions were made for us by a mix of deterministic and stochastic processes from a plane of reality we had to infer which was qualitatively different from our lived reality of qualia.  
9. Furthermore, the fact that qualia is unneeded in scientific explanations makes it so mysterious that the material realm we inferred is inferring back that our subjective experience as qualia-bundles is not needed by any material body to live and that if anything qualia-bundles are the causal results of material laws of motion, that the secondary realm of materiality can reach into the primary realm of qualia to generate and determine its full contents without needing to consult anything in the primary realm of qualia.  
10. Our projection, the material world, the knowledge of whose existence is conditional on the existence of our sense-percepts, is saying that we as subjective phenomena are its projection and exist in a subordinate dependency on it, in other words, that mind came from body and not that body came from mind, despite the fact that our knowledge of body necessarily came from accepting mind as our starting point since there were no other alternatives possible.  
11. Our mental projection which we construct and reconstruct through our actions as a useful heuristic, the thing we call the "real world", is cutting us down at our root by asserting our irrelevancy, or if not that then rigid child-like dependence with no freedom of movement for us.   
12. The scientific process from our standpoint feels like we consciously act upon the world to study it, receiving sense-percepts that we can reconcile with other sense-percepts.  
13. From our phenomenological starting point, we can never be totally sure of a consistent material world with "good bookkeeping" existing independently of all subjective human agents, so we take it on faith that a particular material item or process produces analogous and rigorously consistent qualia for us and for other observing people.  
14. We take it on faith that when we leave the laboratory, it is not the case that items of study go missing or change color due to the inconsistency of the posited external material realm, or that our own memories are not tampered when we access them at different times.  
15. Yet our actions as scientists are also mediated by the scientific processes at every level of abstraction, from our subatomic particles, atoms, molecules, proteins, organelles, cells, tissues, organs, bodily systems, individual psychologies, social embedment, historical context, etc.  
16. We are science studying itself.  
17. We are not active participants in this scientific procedure but rather the subjective projection of a total system scrutinizing its own totality in a more or less consistent and rigorous manner, acting upon itself self-referentially on many levels of abstraction.  
18. It is bound by the physical and economic limitations of its own self, not to mention the final limitations exposed by the Incompleteness Theorems that foreclose a unified consistent theory of everything.  
19. This process happens by deterministic and stochastic material means, meaning that the material world is an autonomously moving entity probing its own depths, and purely as a side effect, it excretes qualia-bundles which have no causal power whatsoever but are just essentially fragmented recordings, roaming ghosts which think of themselves as persons with agency, personalities, goals, possessions, and relationships.  
20. If it were robots doing the science and not human subjects, then there would be no qualia as a side effect, thus no illusory ghosts yet the same material impact outside of the physiological differences between humans and robots.  
21. I have yet to describe the human condition or phenomenology of interacting with other human agents, which we can pejoratively call trails of qualia-bundles or illusory ghosts, in a way mediated through the real material world as a consistent anchor for sense-percepts over time, and in a symmetrical manner so everyone is aware of the nature of their common condition and is aware that everyone else is aware too.  
22. I also have not mentioned the discreteness of qualia-bundles, that generally we cannot directly experience what others are experiencing in real time, and even in recordings, that is an indirect mimic not the actual qualia-bundle.  
23. Yet there are some edge-cases of note. Think of a brain split between 2 hemispheres. Or conjoined twins whose brains are linked or touching. How separated do 2 or more thinking tissues have to be in order to become 2 qualia-bundles not 1? Is it a spectrum? What if we fused 2 functioning brains? Would the qualia merge into a unitary bundle?  
24. Is qualia distributed around the brain or concentrated?  
25. We can do some experiments in neuroscience but the basic limitation is that we cannot perceive the qualia of others, we are very familiar with our own qualia, and yet all of the material world expresses itself to us through qualia, not direct materiality.  
26. Two qualia-bundles are never in a direct causal relationship with each other since they are each puppets of their correlating material processes.  
27. When talking to another person, the qualia generated on both sides is simply the phantom reflection of deterministic and stochastic material processes in both bodies working themselves out by their own rules of development.  
28. Qualia behaves in strange ways and it is hard to describe and systematize.  
29. Humans sometimes lose access to their own qualia in cases like GABAergic drug memory blackouts where a person experiences something under intoxication but has no idea what it was and cannot recall it, i.e., qualia without future access.  
30. All we ever experience is our own qualia, but humans cannot directly send their qualia to other humans even though there is a mutual acknowledgement that they both experience qualia, and that this is the universal human condition and curse.  
31. If I wanted to inform another human of my qualia, I would need to parse my own sense-percepts and concomitantly execute actions in a recurring loop (at least from my personal point of view, as it is in truth an illusion by a phantom, my feeling of selfhood and feeling of free will as well as consistency over time being just a portion of my qualia-bundle, and not what is actually going on in reality) to find or create a material correlate in the real world that symbolizes my qualia in a format that the other human could link from material symbology to definite qualia or vague clusters of possible qualia.  
32. This could be speech or even an image, which is still symbolic in nature since they have to map the pixels to a viewed event.  
33. I would need to know that I symbolize the same way that they do.  
34. Having ascertained that the real correlate evokes the same qualia for me that I expect it to evoke for them, I must place the object in direct physical relation with the other human's body so that they can capture the object in sense-percepts to translate the metaphor and either legitimately experience the same qualia or relate to it sufficiently to have a general clue about what I experienced as qualia.  
35. Also, qualia-bundles include temporality and seem to experience time, but not necessarily in the same way as material things, as demonstrated by NMDAR antagonist (i.e., Ketamine) or KOR agonist (i.e., Salvinorin A) experiences where subjective time diverges radically from real time.

II

36. Here is the phenomenology of other humans.  
37. In a philosophical sense, we were "thrown into" the world, a world very complex and challenging where the threat of our termination incessantly lurks.  
38. We were “thrown into” the world specifically as qualia-bundles with just qualia to our name at the start, and are forced to make and revise provisional hypotheses to get by, to survive, and to incrementally cheat death one day after the other by temporarily placating urgent sense-percepts as they manifest to us that we label as hunger, thirst, cold, pain, sickness, boredom, and loneliness.  
39. We start in undiluted confusion and emptiness.  
40. No timeless absolute axioms exist here but just heuristics and probabilities.  
41. We have the impression of free will, agency, the ability to freely think and make decisions, and these seem obvious to us but will break down later on.  
42. We use these illusions to test the effect of our actions on our sense-percepts to sketch out a model for further actions given further sense-percepts.  
43. Our hypothesis of a consistent objective external world is also just a construct that happens to help us as we navigate the world we were "thrown into".  
44. We encounter others like us through sense percepts and, assuming that the world truly exists externally to our sense-percepts and is coherent over time and space, we come to realize that others also were "thrown into" the world in very similar conditions, cohabitating it with us, and that they also possess qualia on grounds of seeming to have the same parts that we do, behaving like they suffer and enjoy things (at this point the concept of a philosophical zombie has yet to arise), yet also the shared symmetrical inability for anyone to directly transmit their qualia to others.  
45. They thus probably feel pain and pleasure practically equivalently as we do and we can make our qualia commensurable in a symmetric equality since we want others to recognize that we have qualia as well.  
46. People only agree to cooperate for the long-term when they are able to reconcile each others' claims to qualia.  
47. I will recognize others' needs as an end since I want them to recognize my needs as an end.  
48. They do not necessarily need to fully believe it but just to live by it and put it in practice, like a moral anti-realist not breaking laws or abusing others regardless of their skepticism of moral facthood.  
49. "Tit-for-tat" leads up in dialectical spirals to profound systems of morality and governance.   
50. Others' existence and then others possessing qualia are provisional theories that we use to collectively survive and make meaning in our human condition.  
51. Fairness and personal equality emerge pragmatically when people working collectively to survive the struggle of the human condition refuse to be treated less than others ceteris paribus as a condition for cooperation after there is a mutual consensus that everyone shares qualia symmetrically.  
52. This is just a speculative philosophical phenomenological anthropology, a metaphor for how qualia-bearers behave in a world with other qualia-bearers, and any further research into human society and its development must consult the works of historical materialism.

III

53. The material world cuts itself down as much as our personhood because it throws away the ladder by which we went from raw sensory-experience through our perceived agency manipulating the external material world through science to understanding the material world in the first place.  
54. Just like with Ludwig Wittgenstein and his *Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus*, qualia builds a ladder to materiality, but materiality then kicks away the ladder that led to itself in the first place.  
55. Materiality disproves itself, and our sense of “free will” was the precondition for its own refutation: M \=\> \~M & FW \=\> \~FW.

IV

56. In my phenomenology, metaphysics in the Marxist sense comes from taking one's sense-perceptions in the scientific process to construct a theoretical model of regularity that is not spatiotemporally specific and localized to one's context, but instead grossly misrepresenting one's epistemological access to the material world, making laws of motion eternal and universal instead of provisional, local, probabilistic, and contingent, i.e., incorrectly generalizing the local laws of motion one has determined through repeated spirals of investigative action and sense-perception, thinking that one's local laws apply everywhere in space and time despite having no grounds to do so due to a shaky certainty in even the continuity and consistency of the material world in the first place.  
57. We cannot claim that our sense-percepts are a representative sample of all possible sense-percepts by qualia in this system.  
58. We might be in a pocket of the real world that obeys extremely different laws than the rest of materiality.  
59. The real world may obey different laws in different spaces or times, like capitalism in our world in most places, with generalized commodity production including labor-power as a commodity, but feudalism previously, and communism in the future.

V

60. I must warn you that you are not a scientist: there are no scientists as such but a rich material totality probing its own depths on its own terms, and epiphenomenal ghosts wandering on its edges.  
61. Indeed in a sense of logical entailment, regardless of whether on the face of things one believes in these theses or rejects their reasoning, understanding this work properly dissolves the work itself into nonsensical contradictory internal cognitive fragments reverberating about in a loose tepid bowl of spaghetti, and renders the pattern of symbols here senseless as well, a scattering of raw colors on a conceptual artist’s palette, not prose.  
62. The work is by necessity read in the external real world, as even its author could not have come up with it internally all at once in any case, thus falling prey to its own skepticism outside of its internal contradictions in the text.  
63. This work self-referentially entangles itself in its own incrementally-developing system both actively and implicitly, both here and much earlier, thereby laying the seeds for unresolvable paradoxical contradictions.  
64. Thus, some epistemological obstacles in this text are latent in the subject-matter it covers, and some were not mandatory but were instead my own deliberate inclusion.  
65. If the general sketch painted here is true, then it thereby cannot be the case.  
66. Reading a text is like an incremental stacking of blocks: the moment this chain of reasoning fully satisfies its own truth condition, it finds itself to be false, yet when it is false it no longer blocks its own self-sabotage, hence initiating the stacking of the blocks again (since our starting point in abstract phenomenology is so bare in that it assumes virtually nothing, justifying it as the most natural starting point), in a loop of intellectual minutiae that can repeat until the reader is mentally exhausted or gives up in frustration, or a reader who is undaunted and attempts to grasp this meta-loop in thought to try to make sense of what cannot be made sense of.  
67. Reality is an unresolvable self-contradiction permitting no complete consistent closed systemization of itself from within itself by the Incompleteness Theorems of Gödel and Tarski, and given that reality is the totality by tautology, there is nothing “outside” of reality by definition.  
68. Therefore there can never be a single coherent objective comprehensive theory of what is out there and what it is doing.  
69. We can only have systematic treatment of localities or a non-systematic treatment of the totality, i.e., a critical method of self-reflection with a toolkit and heuristics, not a true systematization of reality, a “Big Book”  with the certain definite answers to every question on some page.  
70. “First personhood” provides access to a definite stream of sense-percepts and internal-percepts, allowing for some perspective, better than the “zeroth personhood” of contentless silence, but it forecloses the possibility of a systematic understanding of the totality due to being embedded within it, as explained earlier.  
71. The phantoms reading this disturbing work on screen or paper who have encountered in it these foul and bewildering sense-percepts, parsed them into phraseology in natural language, employed the general social linguistic consensus concerning the referent of its terms, and comprehended the self-referential senselessness of these listed sentences can accept their own phantom-like mode of being, their lack of direct causal relationship with any materiality, and their complete determination by materiality, but only by cutting short the chain of reasoning at the moment when materiality kills the subject, not continuing further to when materiality kills itself and dumps the alleged subject back where they started from in a phenomenological anthropological sense.  
72. Or they can keep on living in a sense by bouncing between (1) the plane of radical total skepticism where the material world has no independent existence outside sense-percepts, and where they are continuously and irretrievably stuck in the epistemological starting point, and (2) the plane of complete dissolution of the self and the loss of any latent potential for there to be selves.  
73. That a work of prose could bring the ghosts reading it to doubt the material world from which they perceived themselves reading these accumulated glyphs to garner the necessary sense-percepts to understand these ordered words in the first place, or to to sever their intuitive understanding of the relationships between sense-percepts and external materiality, means that it too cuts itself down at the root, contradicting itself in performance and deleting itself as a work which one realizes that it was better off to have never been read in the first place, as certain rabbit holes once found can never be closed again.  
74. This work is necessarily incomplete and can never be completed to thereby have all of its gaps and open-endedness fully patched up, for reasons which should be obvious at this stage of discussion.