The Law of Value in Karl Marx’s *Capital*  
By: Russell Sicheng Shen – Babur Timurid (RSS-BT)

I

1. First comes my explanation of and commentary on the law of value to sum up what I have studied in Karl Marx's *Capital* so far, a train of thought that I eventually expand on its own terms to touch a wide range of related theoretical and practical problems, at first saying nothing truly novel but just emphasizing various themes among others, then venturing onwards to original synthesis and discussion.  
2. For the sake of simplicity and making my writing less verbose and difficult to read, I am sometimes abstracting away from C-M-C by treating exchange-value ratios as literally implying trading x of product A directly for y of product B, even though the value-form of commodities can only exist in its full-blown money-form: a commodity does not directly face another commodity of a different kind in the marketplace as its value-equivalent, but rather money is their mandatory intermediate in the circulation of commodities, money must directly face one commodity as value-equivalent and then face the next commodity as such as well, prices are only expressible in the form of money, value in the form of crystalized labor, and the relationship between phenomenal price and noumenal value to be fleshed out in the course of writing.  
3. Behind the law of value in simple commodity production, yet somewhat differently than in the full-blown capitalist mode of commodity production, is the inescapable transhistorical social division of labor constituting the total social labor power being split between many private producers in this particular form of society, being only indirectly social, necessitating the atomized exchange of equivalent values, equivalent at least on average, between private producers to regulate proportions of simple labor time in the form of, and reduced down from, private labors of varying complexity that are allocated between different concrete sectors of the total social labor in the long-run to succeed in producing socially-necessary use-values behind the backs of the producers, i.e., without any intention or conscious plan for allocating these necessarily-specialized roles in social labor from the top-down, as would be the case in directly-social associated labor in which society keeps a common account, viz., communism, instead of the indirectly-social production and circulation of commodities in which every producer possesses a private account and, past the private production of use-values for themself or direct appropriation of others' use-values, achieves their social aims indirectly through commodity exchange between these accounts, by selling what they produce yet do not personally need and exchanging their products' converted money-form for other people's products whose own sellers consider as only purely-quantitative values, though not use-values in themselves, yet which the buyer take as use-values to us for direct consumption but not values.  
4. This discounts the capitalist purchase of values with money to transform into a greater sum of money, realizing surplus-value.  
5. Not merely use-values, these products of indirectly-social labor are full-blown commodities that have a definite ratio of exchange with other commodities, and by virtue of the social division of labor, we will see why this exchange-value of theirs reduces down to the common denominator of socially-necessary labor-time.  
6. The commodity-form is a contingent form in the sense that it arises in a society of private producers as a means of distributing use-values between private accounts when these interpersonal barriers from private property relations prevent use-values from being jointly distributed by all of society to satisfy the requirements of use-values held by all of its constituents in a conscious movement without the presence of private accounts.  
7. To be a value, the product of labor must be a use-value to someone else in society, meaning that value is not fully separable from qualitative concerns, though a person with a product they treat as an exchange-value, something to give up in exchange for a direct use-value for their own consumption, cannot simultaneously consider it as a use-value to be consumed directly for their own personal needs.  
8. Value is continuously created, and value is continuously consumed, yet some of it is productively consumed though it at first takes away from the aggregated commodity holdings of society by maintaining or even enhancing the productive potential of the social labor power so that it can create and add further value to society’s vast accumulation of commodities, what we can call material reproduction, and other portions of it are consumed destructively through war or crime, not just eliminating concrete use-values but reducing the value of, or equivalently, lowering the aggregated abstract labor content of, the total social inventory of commodities in an absolute sense, with no compensation on the other side of the ledger.  
9. The private producers do not manually calculate the quantitative value of their commodities, as society as an economic entity self-regulating by virtue of the unified production, circulation, and consumption of commodities, which as the totality of their decentralized decisions reduces their complex private labors to simple labor-time, counts all simple labor-hours as equivalent regardless of source, appropriately truncates unnecessary labor-time not needed to produce a use-value or that which produces an excess of items that no one wants to buy and thereby cannot be considered use-values, while performing the inverse operation for a relatively-efficient labor process, and exchanges these products of labor between private accounts based on an equivalence in the total accumulation of socially-necessary simple labor time additively accrued from numerous private producers and buyers without factoring the timing of portions of the productive process, at least on a societal average.  
10. To be more specific, for a given use-value, concrete labor only counts as social labor to the proportion to which it contributes to the totality of use-values being exchanged, with the value of one instance of that use-value being the total social labor time necessary to produce the totality divided by the number of instances of that use-value, assuming that they produced and are selling the socially-necessary quantity.  
11. In essence, this masks the actual physical process of producing use-values, but not the purely-quantitative abstract process of producing values, and it also hides the complex concrete way in which labor powers of varying complexity at different steps in the process of production spatiotemporally distant contribute to the real labor process, only the aggregation of simple labor-time as a whole.  
12. The buyer in a commodity market in general cares not how products were made in a technical sense, such as if 1000 highly-skilled artisans made it or 100,000 low-skilled laborers did so instead, as the commodity-form does not display its qualitative history of labor outside its quantitative abstraction in socially-necessary labor time in the form of additively combining masses of abstract labor time.  
13. Assuming simple commodity production, if I produced 10 identical chairs and social labor produced a total of 100 identical chairs in 20 total work hours, regardless of the deviation of individual producers' productivity from the average so long as the average is maintained, and 100 chairs is the socially-necessary amount, then the 10 chairs I contributed are only worth 2 work hours regardless if I actually spent 1 work hour, 2 work hours, or 5 work hours to make my 10 chairs.  
14. In the marketplace, not only do they disregard the qualitative labor process making the chairs, the buyers do not care that I spent less, the same, or more work hours to make my chairs than my competitor sellers in the market.  
15. If our chairs are equivalent, then the law of value makes my chairs sell for approximately the same as those of others behind the backs of all sellers and buyers, assuming non-interference of disequilibria from supply and demand factors, and other noisy factors usually abstracted away by economists.

II

16. Supply and demand shocks exist and determine price in the short-run, but the price deviations away from their equilibrium values which they produce serve to shock the decentralized division of labor for the private producers to shift their productive focuses to take advantage of prices incorporating more labor-time than value in the case of demand, and to prevent being taken advantage of due to prices incorporating less labor-time than value in the case of supply, thereby evening them out in the medium-to-long-run.  
17. When this happens, simple labor time redistributes itself among the sectors of production until in the social division of labor the quantity of it for each type of commodity equals the socially-necessary amount: what the producers originally expected to be socially-necessary turned out to not be the case; the two figures smashed into each other like iron on iron, and the producers hence find themselves compelled by the impersonal force of the price-form to align their multivariate labor-powers in the next round of the process of production with what had turned in the circulation of commodities out to actually be socially-necessary to produce for exchange.  
18. Therefore, the law of value holds in the medium-to-long-run average because a price above value induces compensatory production shifts from other commodities to that commodity that lower price and clear the shortage, and price below value induces compensatory production shifts from that commodity to other commodities that raise price and clear the glut.  
19. These feedback mechanisms continue until price matches value meaning that there will no longer be a reason for the producers to shift labor time allocation towards or away from that productive sector due to a quantitative equivalence between socially-necessary simple labor-time expended in production and the same socially-necessary simple labor-time embedded in the commodities traded for the original commodity in question.  
20. Price signals, or rather value-price deltas, serve to recalibrate production decisions, being the mechanism by which demand and supply factors after commodities come to market, which demonstrate whether there is a shortage or glut of that commodity with respect to social necessity, reconcile existing production levels with socially-necessary production levels for the next round of market exchanges.  
21. Value-price deltas for a commodity only occur in this form of society when its real production does not match socially-necessary production, either due to errors in the expectation functions of production for private producers, i.e., subjective errors, or due to unexpected problems in the productive process preventing adequate production of the use-value, i.e., objective errors.  
22. A value-price delta for one commodity, assuming no issues of consistency in circulation, implies that the opposite-valence value-price delta must be distributed among some number of other commodities for very clear reasons easily derivable from points elaborated earlier.  
23. That the system is self-regulating behind the backs of the producers is to say that value-price deltas lead to their own negation on average in the long run, demonstrating the law of value.  
24. This is how a society of private producers can produce what is socially-necessary without any common deliberation.  
25. The Neoclassical economist may attempt to understand these laws of motion by referring to tradeoffs and the opportunity cost of allocating marginal labor, how after reflecting on what happened during commodity circulation, the private producers in pursuing their self-interest will collectively on average decide to spend less labor-time producing use-values which they can only redeem for money-prices lower than their labor-content and instead spend more labor time producing use-values whose price equals their value or producing use-values which they have the opportunity to redeem for money-prices greater than their labor-content.  
26. In the process of trying to get the most out of their labor process and trips to the marketplace, to access a greater fraction of the fruits of society's total labor power with a smaller quantitative expenditure of their own labor-power, to thereby satisfy their need to consume specific use-values, the producers accidentally make their society self-regulating.  
27. Yet the producers cannot calculate all of the supply and demand shocks before every production cycle, so the system is necessarily noisy in the short-run in the sense of the existence of value-price deltas.

III

28. Neoclassical models of supply and demand predominate in the short-run to explain the short-run movement of prices when actual production fails to match socially-necessary production, but not in the medium-to-long-run when these two figures align as they cannot explain the real equilibrium value which price gravitates towards in the main despite the presence of noise.  
29. Neoclassical models of economics work only on very short timescales and very local systems, and only have scientific value in short-run closed scenarios, becoming more and more confused when zooming out since their "snapshot" methodology is inherently static, eternal, and absolute, meaning that it cannot grasp history, the dichotomy of transhistorical truths and epoch-dependent laws, transitions between stages of development possessing their own laws of motion, nor even a consistent model of the self-development of capitalist systems.  
30. Neoclassical economists attack Marx's law of value on the grounds of metaphysics in the sense of being an abstract non-empirical entity resistant to falsification, yet they ignore that their starting point of marginal utility is just as metaphysical if not more.  
31. We have seen that Marx's law of value can be grounded in an understanding of the transhistorical nature of the division of labor inherent in all human societies, present, past or future, and the self-regulating dynamics of a society of private producers as it distributes labor-time in an indirectly-social manner to various sectors such that discrepancies between actual production levels and socially-necessary production levels lead to value-price deltas which correct themselves in the long-run by inducing shifts in the indirectly-social division of labor.  
32. Economists with this line of criticism also ignore that all scientific theories must inevitably have a starting point which they cannot prove a priori, but must rather develop their starting unit of abstraction into a coherent model which then offers empirical predictions that can be compared to real-world data, and only this can be the true justification for a scientific starting point, the law of value of Marxist political economy or the theory of marginal utility of Neoclassical economics.  
33. If one could build up an entire scientific theory starting from proving its starting point a priori, this would be an idealist construction on the same level of reality as theorems in mathematics or formal logic, not a science of the material world, whether it be natural or social.  
34. Moreover, in the case of the social sciences, such an a priori system completely developed without touching any empirical data would be true in a logical sense in all social epochs to therefore either distort or mask true differences between the set of laws of different epochs, or only be able to express the most vapid and trivial of observations.  
35. It is also very dubious that one could construct such an ideal consistent system of the real world from just pure thought and bare self-reflection absent empirical data and a strong history of scientifically scrutinizing real world phenomena since that would let one construct materiality from scratch before experiencing it, and the external world is far more complex than one's internal modeling intuitions no matter which historical genius one is.  
36. Anyone claiming to construct scientific systems a priori, like the Austrian School of Economics, is a fool or a charlatan, likely smuggling in ideological assumptions to kickstart their apriorist proof for a material agenda, the material interests of entrenched classes far flung from their idealist pretensions through overt funding and the fetishized view of economic categories being the default mode of thought producing ideological blinders for the bourgeois intelligentsia akin to how the fetishized view of religion was the default mode of thought of feudalism, producing ideological blinders for the "Third Estate" to justify tithing to the clergy and taxation to the nobles for the nascent bourgeoisie, guild-based artisans, private merchants, and assorted peasantry.  
37. Ideological blinders in a general epistemological sense exist even outside of class ideology.  
38. These epistemological obstacles prevent even the most brilliant of thinkers from systematizing their own personal raw theoretical materials, which is why Marx by himself could not have systematized his own thought and Engels had to do the systematic work on his behalf, because of the cognitive biases from being too close to one's own historical context, personal narrative, idiosyncratic thought process, and theoretical contributions just like how one cannot produce a general closed model of a system that includes oneself as a member, intuitively since the self-reference to account for oneself as a member of the system will also recursively need to account for its own existence in an infinite loop leading to irresolvable contradictions like one’s thought being a beam of light entering a hall of mirrors, the incessant reflections of reflections being analogous to thinking of oneself thinking of oneself, etc. etc. (c.f. Gödel's Incompleteness Theorems and Tarski's Undefinability Theorem).  
39. Engels had sufficient cognitive distance to make Marxism as such into a consistent system with clear areas for further development despite acknowledging his intellectual inferiority to Marx.  
40. The fetishism of the commodity and the fetishism of all of the concepts derivable from that cell-form form an elaborate system in which the secondary dependent contingent abstract creations of the human mind take on a primary illusory fixed eternal absolute intuitively-justified seemingly-material form of social reality, and when they do so they take on the appearance of agency and autonomy, and human agents take on the appearance of dependent subjugated passivity, being at the mercy of social constructs arising behind their backs from the sum of their decentralized unintended actions.  
41. The money-form obscures the labor-content of the products of exchange, and so does the loss of the gold standard which in theory allowed bearers of paper currency to freely exchange them for the weight of gold denoted on the bill, and which at the very least anchored money-price in the labor cost of extracting the weight of gold constituting physically-circulating coinage, and the resolution of this theoretical opening in Marxism is as far as I know not fully consummated.  
42. Bourgeois economics takes these fetishes as-is without questioning them, then uses them as the categories for their synthesis of economics, creating an entirely sympathetic description of capitalism from the perspective of the capital owner.  
43. With bourgeois assumptions comes a theory that is obviously bourgeois, apologetic for capitalism and serving to justify bourgeois society against naïve questions of why we are never able to fully leverage social labor to solve our common social ills, and repress its contradictions to delay the inevitable crisis in the form of Keynesianism.  
44. Only in the later stages of one epoch can the epistemological obstacles preventing a critical grasp of that epoch be lifted and allow for conscious transcendence of the limitations of that epoch.  
45. This itself reflects that the transhistorical development of the productive forces finds itself facilitated by relations of production that define their epoch until they become fetters, the superstructure too becoming "sticky", causing lag between forces and relations of production, and then the necessity for revolutionary transformation to rectify this dislocation.  
46. “Sticky” superstructure explains why social progress is never linear but through long periods of slow quantitative continuity followed by short periods of rapid qualitative rupture: the old institutions persist longer than they are needed, and for a while the contradictions sharpen as the ruling elite declines to introduce obviously-needed incremental reforms, but the contradictions need to grow to a certain extent under a “sticky” superstructure unwilling to reform to create enough pressure to explode the system in a social or political revolution that drastically and fundamentally updates the relations of production to bring them to the proper alignment with the corresponding forces of production for each mode of production articulated in the social formation, with some risk of overshooting (ultra-leftism) or undershooting it (right-opportunism), and hence unblocks the growth of the forces of production as a transhistorical given variable.  
47. After every social epoch, the fog progressively lifts so that we can see through both the religious fetishes of feudal society and the value-form fetishes of capitalist society, understanding class society and how it preserves itself temporarily yet growing the material contradictions that will end itself.  
48. Only at the precipice of the modern era can we see the entire succession of class societies leading up to their dissolution through conscious organized proletarian revolution to produce the dictatorship of the proletariat, itself an intermediate node on the way to communism, i.e., directly-social labor under the form of distribution by labor contribution and under the form of distribution by need given a truly post-scarcity material base.

IV

49. However, we must understand one thing: when Marx speaks of associated labor, viz., communism, he never fails to mention that accounting of labor-time, the distribution of the social labor power among departments of production and roles of production, keeping a ledger of how much labor it generally takes to produce various use-values, keeping an inventory of labor-powers and their relative productivity in various roles in the productive process, allocating productive factors to firms, setting production targets for firms, etc. still persists even in the “higher phase” of communism in which distribution of use-values proportional to reduced simple labor-time through redeemable tokens of labor is abolished in favor for distribution of use-values freely based on need (one important point I need to bring up contrary to many traditional and mainstream interpretations of Marxism is that this is not the same thing as distribution based on equality, since people have different qualitative and quantitative needs, especially disabled people, highly skilled people who require special use-values to maximize their potential (a human investment), and people who have valid but different preferences; I personally do not see Marx as writing much about or valuing equality at all, and for him communism is certainly not justified based on equality but rather freedom from being haunted by fetishes and reifications and order from having society collectively planning its future), due to materially transcending scarcity, i.e., production is so fruitful that we no longer need to incentivize hard productive work by rewarding people unevenly based on their real contribution in useful labor and labor time, despite the subversion of the division of labor so that most ordinary people have the time and capacity to take up multiple occupations as they please since the edifice of post-scarcity is a forgiving enough environment to allow for such pursuits without destroying the economy.  
50. Yet, production persists in all historical epochs, and for Marx, so does labor-accounting divorced of its full-blown form of value, the money-form and commodity-form, and all of those consequences reverberating through history.  
51. Even in a post-scarcity world dispensing with the division of labor and even work-incentives, one cannot plan a world economy let along a localized economy without needing to seek, if not the most optimal allocation, a sufficiently efficient allocation of labor and means of production to various productive tasks, the necessary labor for each product, not to mention the coordination between all these processes of production in case any one of them encounters roadblocks that paralyze the entire production chain.  
52. Lack of scarcity can only forgive so much before dysfunctional disastrous social planning on account of not placing the right fractions of social labor power into the right place and accounting for how much social labor was necessary to produce all of the many types of means of production absolutely needed to produce a wide range of complex use-values in this futuristic advanced post-scarcity world.  
53. This is indeed a difficult problem, and at this stage in our understanding of economic planning, this is still unsolved and therefore any discussion of a functioning society that has abolished not just capitalism but also the law of value and the accounting of labor-time is speculatively utopian at best and dangerously misleading at worst.  
54. It is noteworthy that Marx introduced the basic sketch of communism before the dialectical building blocks of capital and capitalist production in itself.

V

55. Lenin said that Marx derived communism from the dialectical movement of capitalism itself, but what exactly is a dialectical movement?  
56. A good metaphor is writing an essay from a starting point aiming to reach the logical end, either succeeding in attaining closure or leaving an incomplete project, choosing one’s next sentences purely based on the contents written thus far, and therefore iteratively writing out the rest of the essay from start to end in a rigorous manner as one constantly resolves the problematic produced by the state of things posited by the current state of the essay being incomplete and unstable by adding content that temporarily fixes the destabilization yet cannot prevent the essay from once again falling into one-sidedness and deficiency, thus motivating another problematic to temporarily address again through the further development of the essay towards completion until the system closes in on its starting point, “completing the circle” like in Hegel’s comprehensive dialectical idealist system, or leaves itself incomplete like in *Capital*.  
57. That metaphor describes Hegel’s *Phenomenology of Spirit* and *Science of Logic*, not to mention Marx’s *Capital*.  
58. We have seen the dialectic within individual works by authors, yet we can also consider the dialectic of theoretical constructs on a more general level.  
59. There are many historical contingencies for the evolution of theoretical constructs, a messy convoluted process that idealist accounts of it abstract away from to simplify thought’s history into clean closed airtight linear constructs easily grasped in a textbook for ideological reasons, as thought is necessarily situated within and couched by its historical context that opens up its theoretical problematic.  
60. Here is a blank definition that says practically nothing: a theoretical construct is an aggregation of articulated or latent expressible thoughts, each with a clear sense or a set of reasonable senses, yet at this stage it is still arbitrary whether these thoughts held together are more-or-less coherent, inconsistent, or outright mutually-contradictory.  
61. Even on the theoretical level we see great complexities that turn the history of theoretical formations into a rich complex tapestry, but for the materialist, the essential underlying dialectic of the development of thought is that at a given starting point in materiality–abstracted on either on the level of individual thinkers at a specific point in world history or on the level of mass ideologies held by a dynamic fluid internally-inconsistent group of thinkers over time as they promote ideas and criticize others, and revise them in motion with historical circumstances also at a specific conjuncture in human history–theory as is literally physically inside a theorist’s mind, what they can recall and tell you on the spot at a single specific moment in time (which is necessarily incomplete, fractured, and incoherent), or congealed in letters, speeches, interviews, essays, research papers, books, or polemics, i.e., their paper trail, develops through 2 stages which we can call theoretical generation and theoretical systematization, which in turn map onto the dialectic phraseology of rupture and continuity, contradiction and resolution, and a body of thought oscillates between these 2 poles as a necessary internal motion driving themselves towards their development that is still nonetheless couched in the thinker’s historical experience, and the conceptualization of this interpolar motion on different time scales helps to frame inquiry into ideology on different levels, as the thinker may have to pass between these 2 poles daily while writing, while their individual outputs may exhibit these stages in the text, their lifetime works showing these phases, different authors representing one of the 2 poles, and entire mass ideological movements being explainable as going through phases of their development by passing through the 2 poles.  
62. History tells the thinkers what the problematic is, the possible range of solutions from their one-sided perspective, and the fact that others symmetrically also aim to solve the problematic from the possible range of solutions from their one-sided perspective, yet it is the thinkers who put themselves into action that determine the course of history, so this causal process goes in both directions.  
63. During generation, the thinker’s current understanding of things becomes destabilized so that they now appear one-sided, a sense of insufficiency grows, there is a recognition of the ideas that did not line up with each other which produced this theoretical crisis, and the contradictions internally form a rupture, a problematic that the thinker must crawl through by generating raw theoretical material in the form of fragments that do not necessarily cohere with each other, as possible answers to close the problematic, working through the rupture that necessitates not just incremental quantitative revision of the old system, which would have solved the crisis if it even could, but a transcendence of the old paradigm but not yet the consolidation of a new paradigm to replace it.  
64. During systematization, a thinker, the same one or another person, finds these fragments and curates them, rejecting the weaker ones, preserving the stronger ones, and molds these raw theoretical fragments, using quantitative theoretical deductions as glue, into a more-or-less coherent picture, or at least more coherent than it was before, that is similar to the original understanding of things but more developed by virtue of recognizing the limitations within the old picture and developing a new picture of things that worked out its old contradictions so that for just a moment the systematizing thinker finds themselves proud of their theoretical production, enjoying the elegance and symmetry of their chosen arrangement of its theoretical content, arguing for their interpretation over the seemingly misguided foolish interpretations of others attempting to work through the raw products of theoretical generation, in other words, seeing it as a definite and stable system though this feeling of continuity and incremental quantitative development will eventually pass.  
65. Reality soon sets in after a honeymoon period of different length depending on the level of abstraction, and now the thinker, the same one or another person, finds themselves consumed by the limitations and flaws inherent to the theoretical construct such that what was once stable and comprehensive now finds itself in crisis once again, and the thinker is forced by their own mental constructs, their intellectual rigor becomes a compulsive force telling them that if they care about their intellectual pursuit that they must attempt to end this crisis by crawling through the crack on the exterior of the system, the crack formed by the theoretical rupture exploding from inside the system, and generating new raw theoretical fragments that will seemingly patch the system up again, which they can succeed in doing more or less sufficiently based on their internal intellectual skill set or motivations and the historical context they are couched in that defines their fundamental epistemological limitations.  
66. Obviously, such a violent process of continuity interrupted by rupture leads to non-linear theoretical development in the form of branching and merging, with rupture producing branching and systematization producing merging, allowing many disparate ideologies to synthesize as strange bedfellows into one strand of thought or for one paradigm to seed countless other paradigms, but in any case the history of human thought creates this tapestry, which in formal science we call a “directed acyclic graph” where the graph’s nodes represents thought at a level of determination in time and the directed arrows represent how thought at one time develops itself straightforwardly into its successor in thought while also being syntactically powerful enough to demonstrate how a particular thought-in-time is the source of a branching for future thoughts-in-time or the result of a merger between many past thoughts-in-time.  
67. This ideal process is embedded in a historical materiality that provides the beginning and end to all of these processes of continuity and rupture, whether these two processes lead to a linear development, branching, or merging: people get their ideas from experiencing their historical conjuncture and interacting with it, and this first-person perspective grants limited insight into materiality for an imperfect incomplete conceptualization of things, yet never sufficient in itself, making it inevitable to create flawed theoretical creations vulnerable to intellectual rupture.  
68. History informs development, branching, and merging as different people find different solutions to their historical problematic as they work simultaneously, each with their own limited first-person perspective.  
69. Streams of thought do not have some kind of eternal existence but rather have their beginnings and ends, as novel thought formations arise and defeated obsolete thought formations fade into obscurity.  
70. Remembering that having a first-person perspective inside a world forecloses the possibility of generating a comprehensive consistent model of one’s world, we understand why being the systematizer of one’s own raw theoretical fragments is very difficult or impossible on a level of theory on the level of individual revolutionary thinkers like Karl Marx or Friedrich Engels even if they are intelligent, because they are “too close” to their own raw theoretical fragments.  
71. This is why it is almost always necessary for one thinker to be the systematizer for the thought of a theoretical generator, such that Engels synthesized Marxism from Marx’s original thought, Stalin synthesized Leninism from Lenin’s original thought, and Deng synthesized Mao Zedong Thought from Mao’s original thought.  
72. From the perspective of the tapestry of human thought, things can be as complicated as one wants, but from a single thinker’s point of view, all they see internally are their own internal ruptures and continuities in a straight line through time, and so too when we trace the “golden thread” running through history along a single ideological tendency that implicitly reflects this dialectical self-contradictory journey between theoretical generation and theoretical systematization.  
73. Queries on the lines of “Is Neue Marx-Lektüre Marxist?” are inherently metaphysical and the subterranean dialectical self-movement of human thought bound to historical circumstances knows nothing of how to answer these questions of category and Platonic forms which incessantly posit their own eternality and purity but are instead superficial and arbitrary, devoid of content: “What does it mean for a theory or theorist to be Marxist or part of Marxism?” is not present within the dialectical vocabulary.  
74. We can thus only speak of the tapestry of the real development of human thought, placing all realms of human thinking on the same plane since esoteric influences can bridge from disciplines that intuitively seem distant from each other, describing the particularities of this complex interconnected development of thoughts over historical time.  
75. The surface-level task of more-or-less arbitrarily labeling these changing, branching, and merging subterranean strands, their historically-situated nodes, and their directed arrows expressing their causal interconnection, precursors and progeny, under fixed absolute mutually-exclusive ideological labels, which by virtue of claiming objectivity must derive from a perspective allegedly outside the tapestry, or at the very least sufficiently theoretically distanced from it, is nothing that the subterranean dialectic can actually contribute meaningfully towards, nor can we truly grasp any of these nameless nodes outside of its own historical problematic, those that needed to have come before it, and those that had to have come after it, both in a causal sense.

VI

76. The dialectic of human thought supervenes upon the dialectic of social formations and modes of production, with some autonomy for subjective factors, and it is only compulsory for it to supervene by the time the final instance manifests itself.  
77. The historical materialist dialectic of thought can only compare concrete situated thought formations with historically-comparable concrete situated thought formations, both of which must exist with rough edges, being unable to compare concrete thought formations with ideological labels, viz., neatly-packaged Platonic forms of a sanitized ahistorical character, or to compare Platonic forms, in the sense of idealized human thought distilled into discrete crystals, with each other.  
78. The same reasoning applies to the historical materialist dialectic of social formations and modes of production which can only compare concrete social formations with historically-comparable concrete social formations, with the flaws and scars of human struggle, and never compare real materialized social formations with Platonic forms of an ideal model purified of defects of a practical nature, while the comparison of two Platonic forms of this variety collapses down to idealist metaphysical senselessness.  
79. When choosing between purity and practice, between a million theoretical programs and a few real movements, choose the latter in both cases: retreating into ideal forms, holding the strictest possible standard for socialism, and fixating on academic theory while retreating into academia to live closer to the Marxist texts and desperately uncover a heterodox Marxism that sidesteps the entirety of 20th century and 21st century socialism–believing through all of these that one is headed towards the pole of authentic Marxism–because of being unable to accept the facts of real historical struggle, our bloodsoaked class history and all of its contextual compromises, its errors unavoidable without hindsight (as with hindsight one is always able to be right after the fact to give the illusion of insight or prescience, whereas having to make difficult decisions in real-time means committing to the chosen direction which one holds to have the highest probability of success), is counterproductive and paradoxically undermines one’s relationship with the Marxist method.  
80. Most self-described “scientific” socialists believe in socialism not because of practical examples, which they claim to be just as bad as capitalism or even worse and that we should strive towards socialism despite its entire history of implementation, but rather moralistic utopian-idealist judgements that they themselves deny having as their main mode of justification, and hence, they can never take historical lessons or develop socialist praxis.  
81. Marxists must engage with their complex history in an authentic careful way instead of burying it in apologetics or blind categorical rejection, or otherwise we end up in a situation where those with the least understanding of how to head towards and maintain socialism in the real world, who paradoxically presume to hold the strongest insights, analyses, and interpretations most faithful to Marxism and Marxist praxis, are the ones that can never get a revolutionary movement to seize state power and preserve it beyond a few years let alone build socialist scaffolding, or develop any struggle past isolated insurrections or small communes on the margins of the world economy.  
82. In other words, they could not solve the problem of taking and keeping power in the scope of their own milieu, in sharp contrast with the 20th and 21st century self-described socialist states which reached a far higher level of development before failing (or not failing and actually maintaining their socialist scaffolding), who did successfully bring socialism from one country to many, maintained socialist forms despite imperialist encirclement, and achieved great feats of industrialization, life expectancy, and education.  
83. Everyone thought that the 1917 Russian October Revolution would never survive without the success of the German Revolution, yet the German Revolution collapsed, forcing the Soviet Union to develop internally and bide its time for a more favorable epoch.  
84. After World War II, the Soviet Union occupied nearly all of Eastern Europe, admittedly bringing socialism by Red Army bayonet from outside instead of organically through their indigenous communist parties (though for each state that would end up as a part of the Eastern Bloc, the Red Army did install members of their indigenous communist and social democratic parties into state power), including nearly half of what once was the German Empire, carving what was west of the Oder-Neisse Line into a German workers’ state and annexing what was east of the Line to a Polish workers’ state and the northern portion of what once was Eastern Prussia directly into the USSR, also stripping Germany of its wealth for the sake of Soviet industrial recovery, not to mention its agricultural sector as we remember how much Lenin emphasized the importance of   
85. Hence, it was not Liebknecht, Luxemburg, Kautsky, or Radek who brought the workers’ state and socialism to Germany, completing the open mission of uniting German industrial might with Russian proletarian state power that was supposedly necessary for the world proletarian revolution to survive and for the workers’ states to implement genuinely socialist measures, but Stalin himself, the great reactionary butcher and defiler of the working class and the socialist intellectuals like Bukharin, Rubin, Tukhachevsky, and Kun.  
86. The gap in practice between these two tendencies claiming the mantle of Marxism is not just present but extremely large without a single outlier, which is very damning no matter how one spins it.

VII

87. *Capital* traces internally a dialectical movement powered from its own contradictions and one-sidedness from the smallest commodity cell-form (use-value and exchange-value) that itself hinges on the transhistorical necessity of social labor, in different forms for different epochs, that develops in thousands of pages striving for its full logical completion until it reaches the abolition of capitalism and commodity production in associated labor, going as far to offer us little tantalizing spoilers about the nature of a society of directly-social labor scattered throughout all 4 volumes of *Capital*, drafts for *Capital*, and the rest of Marx and Engels’s corpus, yet it does not definitively “complete the circle” by fully abrogating the labor-time accounting that it started from, only making labor-time accounting directly social and not indirectly social through the circulation of commodities behind the backs of the producers, so *Capital*’s most concrete derivation of communism from capitalism’s contradictions leaves us with directly-social labor that must still regiment and measure itself in chunks of time, this time with full consciousness and the hindsight from grasping the history of class societies in a fluid motion, taking a societal inventory of both itself in the form of accumulated complex labor power as living potential to create use-values and accumulated means of production as fossilized past labor, and calculating the simple social labor time content of various use-values which are not inescapable and vary as the quality of human talent, Nature’s use-values, and the products of their labor vary between and within historical epochs, as a transhistorical physical necessity immune to formal abolishment through decree.  
88. Anyone who claims otherwise has specious hollow reasoning until they demonstrate how a directly-social society without labor-accounting can function beyond just naïve simplified examples, and also show how the movement of the commodity cell-form under capitalism first conceptually and then historically negates not just capital and the logic of self-valorizing value (M-C-M’) creating a surplus-value as a social construct attaining a fictitious resemblance of autonomy, not just the value-form of commodities and money, but also the necessity of structured human labor-time in general, which even in a “Robinson Crusoe” kind of idealized economy of one person is absolutely mandatory as the shipwrecked human must spend their days and nights with a ledger book writing down their skills, possessions, and how many hours of labor time and which possessions they must use to produce a variety of use-values, doing specific things in a specific order and timing with Nature to maintain their survival needs and hopefully find a way off of the deserted island, let alone in a society of many directly-associated producers collectively planning their labor power usage as the total social labor power, maintaining complex production chains necessary for the advanced use-values of late capitalism and the whole epoch of communism, which fail spectacularly if any intermediate productive node cannot deliver upon their agreed production levels, and allowing individual people to take a fraction of the total accumulation of use-values based on an equivalency mediated through non-circulating labor-tokens between the summed simple labor-time from all their contributions and the summed simple labor-time necessary to produce a particular fraction of social use-values, or in a higher stage, to distribute use-values to those who need it the most without measuring the labor-contributions of the social producers.  
89. To sum it up, in all phases of communism as a pure mode of production and not as it has existed in our history, exists right now, or will exist in the future, though indirectly-produced products now directly-produced no longer take the form of commodities due to no longer being exchanged for other products of labor between private accounts, instead being produced by society with a common account and freely-directly-productively employing the resources of the entire society in a definite scientifically-precise manner then distributing the proceeds among the entire society according to some commonly-understood method (during the long years of scarcity, the same proportional fragment of social use-values in labor-content as the total socially-necessary labor time reduced down to simple labor time contributed by the individual per working period as a material incentive to promote industriousness; after scarcity, not equal access to social use-values–as in the most naïve conception of this era–but free access to social use-values when labor is so productive that society can easily forget or forgive people contributing less labor than others or retrieving more use-values than others based on actual personal need like, for the disabled, or just appropriating materiality in selfish excess; in reality, at any point there will be a weighted combination of both of these distributive methods across different nations, regions, and localities depending on the technological and intellectual maturity of various sections of society; understand too that capitalism and the 2 phases of communism all share a fundamentally different relationship with labor time, with the first phase of communism still calculating equivalency between the labor-time embodied in separate entities, the individual’s real contribution in simple labor-time and the labor-content of society’s use-values, though they do not exchange as commodities do), social production on an advanced technological scale is simply not feasible or desirable without a coherent bookkeeping of everything to do with labor-time, the relative embodiment of simple labor-time within the products of labor as inputs or outputs, the labor-content of both use-values of direct consumption by the producers and use-values indirectly consumed in the process of production, serving as the substance of the social plan, even in advanced communist society, without which we have decoherence, then economic collapse, and then the reversal of communist gains due to people rightfully rejecting a totalizing system that cannot meet their material needs, and serving as the mode of distribution in a lower phase of communism which has still not fully shaken off the habit of exchanging equivalent fragments of value: distribution by non-circulating labor-tokens partially traces the logic of value in its most superficial form, but already post-capitalist and post-value-form in its deepest content.